Add proposal for the impersonate user in HB (#104)
kyma-project/helm-broker: docs/proposals/impersonate/impersonate-user.md

   ```bash
   NAME          CLASS                       PLAN      STATUS                       AGE
   redis-user2   ClusterServiceClass/redis   default   OrphanMitigationSuccessful   13m
   ```

   You can check the Service Catalog controller logs to find the provisioning error. Run:
   ```bash
    kubectl logs $(kubectl get po -n kyma-system -l app=service-catalog-catalog-controller-manager --no-headers -ocustom-columns=name:.metadata.name) -n kyma-system -c controller-manager | grep "Error syncing ServiceInstance impersonate-helm-broker/redis-user2"
    ```
   Expected output: 
   ```bash
    I0615 19:07:13.243344       1 controller.go:404] Error syncing ServiceInstance impersonate-helm-broker/redis-user2 (retry: 0/15): Error provisioning ServiceInstance of ClusterServiceClass (K8S: "123-123-123-123-123-123" ExternalName: "redis") at ClusterServiceBroker "impersonate-helm-broker": Status: 500; ErrorMessage: <nil>; Description: namespaces is forbidden: User "user2@kyma.cx" cannot create resource "namespaces" in API group "" at the cluster scope; ResponseError: <nil>
   ```

### Consequences for an accepted proposal

> The PoC shows that the [OriginatingIdentity](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-catalog/blob/b6afbc9fec94e7b0d350f22e736d0484d181b351/pkg/features/features.go#L31-L37) feature is not working as expected. When ServiceInstance is created by the user then the given ServiceInstance is processed by the Service Catalog controller. The controller adds fields under the `spec` entry causing that it is the last one that modified the ServiceInstance and the UserInfo is always populated with the Service Catalog controller service account. This breaks the flow because the Helm Broker does not know the actual author. Before implementing the proposed solution in Helm Broker the pull request which fixes that issue needs to be merged and a new Service Catalog needs to be used in Kyma.

Reviewer: minor:
```
The PoC shows that the [OriginatingIdentity](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-catalog/blob/b6afbc9fec94e7b0d350f22e736d0484d181b351/pkg/features/features.go#L31-L37) feature is not working as expected.
```
Maybe we could show that more transparent e.g by showing some output when Instance created by some user has controller-manager userInfo? We could add it under point 8 in above section.

Reviewer: We can also link to SC issue here if it does exist

> # How to install Addons in a secure way 

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we mention impersonate HB here? I miss a summary sentence in the overview explaining how addons and impersonate HB come together in here.

      groups:
      - system:authenticated
      uid: ""
      username: mateusz.szostok@sap.com
```

On the other hand, the Kubernetes client has a [user impersonation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#user-impersonation) feature which we can leverage during the helm chart installation.

### Architecture 

The new workflow consists of the following steps:

1. The user or K8s controller (technical user) creates the ServiceInstance for a given Addon.
2. Service Catalog reacts on newly created ServiceInstances 
3. and sends the provisioning request to the Helm Broker. The `UserInfo` is included in the provisioning HTTP header. 
4. Helm Broker extracts the `UserInfo` from the header and creates a Helm client with `ImpersonateUser` set to the `username` from the request. 

<p align="center">
 <img alt="arch" src="./impersonate.svg"/>
</p>

> **NOTE:** In the first phase, the support for binding is out of scope, but the Service Catalog enables that flow too.

> > **NOTE:** The above solution works both for the User and ServiceAccount. K8s client should be configured in a such way: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** The above solution works for both User and ServiceAccount. Kubernetes client should be configured in such a way: 
```

> > - for User, the **{USERNAME}** should used

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - for User, the **{USERNAME}** should be used
```

> > - for SA the **system:serviceaccount:{NAMESPACE}:{SERVICEACCOUNT}** should used

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - for ServiceAccount, the **system:serviceaccount:{NAMESPACE}:{SERVICEACCOUNT}** should be used
```

>

> > Naming is already handled by the Service Catalog webhook and `userInfo.username` contains a proper value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Naming is already handled by the Service Catalog webhook and **userInfo.username** contains a proper value.
```

## Proof of Concept

> The PoC was created in [impersonate-helm-broker](https://github.com/mszostok/impersonate-helm-broker) repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The PoC was created in the [`impersonate-helm-broker`](https://github.com/mszostok/impersonate-helm-broker) repository.
```

Follow these steps to validate the proposed workflow: 

1. Create a Kyma cluster.

> 2. Update Service Catalog Webhook Deployment. Run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Update the Service Catalog webhook deployment. Run:
```

    ```bash
   kubectl set image deployment/service-catalog-catalog-webhook svr=mszostok/service-catalog-amd64:fixed-userinfo
    ```

> 3. Checkout [Impersonate Helm Broker](https://github.com/mszostok/impersonate-helm-broker) repository locally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Check out the [`impersonate-helm-broker`](https://github.com/mszostok/impersonate-helm-broker) repository locally.
```

> 4. Install the Impersonate Helm Broker. Run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Install the Impersonate Helm Broker. Run:
```

    ```bash
    kubectl create -f ./deploy
    ```
5. Create a ServiceInstance as the admin who has all privileges. Run: 
    ```bash
   kubectl create -f ./example/si_admin.yaml --as=admin@kyma.cx
    ```
6. Check the status of the created ServiceInstance. Run:
    ```bash
    kubectl get serviceinstance redis-admin
    ```   

>    The ServiceInstance should be in a **Ready** state. Example output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The ServiceInstance should be in the **Ready** state. See the example of an output:
```

   ```bash
   NAME             CLASS                       PLAN      STATUS   AGE
   redis-admin      ClusterServiceClass/redis   default   Ready    10s
   ```

> 7. Create a ServiceInstance as **user2** which doesn't have permission for creating K8s resources other that ServiceInstance. Run: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Create a ServiceInstance as **user2** that doesn't have permission for creating Kubernetes resources other than ServiceInstances. Run: 
```

    ```bash
   kubectl create -f ./example/si_user2.yaml --as=user2@kyma.cx
    ```
8. Check the status of the created ServiceInstance. Run:
    ```bash
    kubectl get serviceinstance redis-user2
    ```   

>    The ServiceInstance should be in a **OrphanMitigationSuccessful** state. Example output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The ServiceInstance should be in the **OrphanMitigationSuccessful** state. See the example of an output:
```

   ```bash
   NAME          CLASS                       PLAN      STATUS                       AGE
   redis-user2   ClusterServiceClass/redis   default   OrphanMitigationSuccessful   13m
   ```

>    You can check the Service Catalog controller logs to find the provisioning error. Run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You can check the Service Catalog controller logs to find the provisioning error. To do so, run:
```

   ```bash
    kubectl logs $(kubectl get po -n kyma-system -l app=service-catalog-catalog-controller-manager --no-headers -ocustom-columns=name:.metadata.name) -n kyma-system -c controller-manager | grep "Error syncing ServiceInstance impersonate-helm-broker/redis-user2"
    ```

>    Expected output: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This is the expected output: 
```

   ```bash
    I0615 19:07:13.243344       1 controller.go:404] Error syncing ServiceInstance impersonate-helm-broker/redis-user2 (retry: 0/15): Error provisioning ServiceInstance of ClusterServiceClass (K8S: "123-123-123-123-123-123" ExternalName: "redis") at ClusterServiceBroker "impersonate-helm-broker": Status: 500; ErrorMessage: <nil>; Description: namespaces is forbidden: User "user2@kyma.cx" cannot create resource "namespaces" in API group "" at the cluster scope; ResponseError: <nil>
   ```

> ### Issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Known issues
```

> The implementation has a lot of obstacles like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The implementation has a lot of obstacles, such as:
```

> 1. Need a PR to change implementation in SC to push forward user's identity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A PR is needed to change the implementation in Service Catalog to push forward the user's identity.
```

> 2. Need a PR to console backend service to support user's identity in client's calls

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. A PR is needed to Console Backend Service to support the user's identity in the client's calls.
```

> 3. The deletion action will be executed using the identity of the last user which executed CREATE or UPDATE action on the Service Instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The deletion action will be executed using the identity of the last user that executed CREATE or UPDATE action on the ServiceInstance.
```

The possible solutions for this issue are as follows:

> - Helm broker with admin permissions for resources removal (requires an additional small PR for Helm Broker)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Helm Broker with admin permissions for resources removal (requires an additional small PR to Helm Broker).
```

> - Implementing the changes in the Service Catalog to move user info from `.spec` to `.status` (more clear solution but requires a higher amount of work)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Implementing the changes in Service Catalog to move user info from **.spec** to **.status** (this solution is more clear but also more time-consuming).
```

> ### Consequences for an accepted proposal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Consequences for the accepted proposal
```

> The PoC shows that the [OriginatingIdentity](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-catalog/blob/b6afbc9fec94e7b0d350f22e736d0484d181b351/pkg/features/features.go#L31-L37) feature is not working as expected. When ServiceInstance is created by the user then the given ServiceInstance is processed by the Service Catalog controller. The controller adds fields under the `spec` entry causing that it is the last one that modified the ServiceInstance and the UserInfo is always populated with the Service Catalog controller service account. This breaks the flow because the Helm Broker does not know the actual author. Before implementing the proposed solution in Helm Broker the pull request which fixes that issue needs to be merged and a new Service Catalog needs to be used in Kyma.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The PoC shows that the [OriginatingIdentity](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-catalog/blob/b6afbc9fec94e7b0d350f22e736d0484d181b351/pkg/features/features.go#L31-L37) feature is not working as expected. When a ServiceInstance is created by the user, it is then processed by the Service Catalog controller. The controller adds fields under the **spec** entry, causing that it is the last one that modifies the ServiceInstance. In such a case, the UserInfo is always populated with the Service Catalog controller service account. This breaks the flow because Helm Broker cannot detect the actual author. Before implementing the proposed solution in Helm Broker, the PR that fixes this issue needs to be merged and the new Service Catalog must be used in Kyma.
```

> The accepted proposal must address above issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The accepted proposal must address the above issues.
```

## Decision

> The decision was made on the meeting 2020-07-14. It assumes resolving the [issues](#issues) in the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The decision was made at the meeting on 2020-07-14. It assumes resolving the [known issues](#known-issues) in the following steps:
```

> 1. Merge a [PR](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-catalog/pull/2822) to SC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Merge a [PR](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-catalog/pull/2822) to Service Catalog.
```

> 2. Implement support for user's identity in the console backend service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Implement support for the user's identity in Console Backend Service.
```

> 3. Use helm broker service account with "God mode" for resources deletion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Use Helm Broker service account with "God mode" for resources deletion.
```

> After implementing the above changes the scenario of working with Helm broker instances will look as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After implementing the above changes, the scenario of working with Helm Broker instances will look as follows:
```

<div tabs>

  <details>
  <summary>
  Create or update
  </summary>
  <p align="center">
   <img alt="arch" src="./impersonate-create.svg"/>
  </p>
    

>   1. User creates or updates an instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. User creates or updates an instance.
```

>   2. Service Catalog webhook fills user info under the instance `.spec` using the identity passed through Console Backend Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  2. Service Catalog webhook fills ServiceInstance’s user info using the identity passed through Console Backend Service.
```

>   2. Service Catalog webhook fills user info under the instance `.spec` using the identity passed through Console Backend Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  2. Service Catalog webhook fills ServiceInstance’s user info using the identity passed through Console Backend Service.
```

>   3. Service Catalog sends provision request to the Helm Broker with the user info specified in the header

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  3. Service Catalog sends the provisioning request to Helm Broker with the user info specified in the header.
```

>   3. Service Catalog sends provision request to the Helm Broker with the user info specified in the header

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  3. Service Catalog sends the provisioning request to Helm Broker with the user info specified in the header.
```

>   4. Helm Broker creates a release using the user's identity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  4. Helm Broker creates a release using the user's identity.
```

>   4. Helm Broker creates a release using the user's identity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  4. Helm Broker creates a release using the user's identity.
```

  
  </details>
  
  <details>
  <summary>
  Delete
  </summary>
  <p align="center">
   <img alt="arch" src="./impersonate-remove.svg"/>
  </p>
  

>   1. User deletes an instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. User deletes an instance.
```

>   2. Service Catalog uses the identity of the user which created or modified as last the instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  2. Service Catalog uses the identity of the last user that created or modified the instance.
```

>   3. Service Catalog sends deprovision request to the Helm Broker with the user which created or modified as last the instance specified in the heade

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  3. Service Catalog sends the deprovisioning request to Helm Broker with the info on the last user that created or modified the instance specified in the header.
```

>   4. Helm Broker ignores user's identity and uses its own ServiceAccount which has admin permissions to delete a release from the cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  4. Helm Broker ignores the user's identity and uses its own ServiceAccount which has admin permissions to delete a release from the cluster.
```
